# Age-Detection
End to End Deep Learning Project.

# Project Title: DeepAge - Age Detection with Deep Learning

## Overview:

DeepAge is a comprehensive end-to-end deep learning project developed in Python for age detection. The model architecture is based on VGG16 and was trained for a limited number of epochs on a local CPU. This project utilizes state-of-the-art neural networks to predict the age of individuals based on input images, and Flask is employed as the web framework for deployment.The data is gathered and loaded via google drive link and was deployed to cloud.

## Technologies Used:

- **Python:** The primary programming language used for the project.
  
- **Deep Learning Frameworks:** Leveraging TensorFlow with VGG16 architecture for model development.

- **MLflow:** Tracking experiments and managing machine learning lifecycle.

- **Flask:** A micro web framework used for deploying the age detection model.

- **DVC (Data Version Control):** Managing and versioning datasets.

- **GitHub Actions:** Automating CI/CD processes with GitHub Actions workflows.

- **Docker:** Containerizing the application for reproducibility.

- **HTML/CSS/JavaScript:** Creating web application templates for model use.

## Model Details:

- **Architecture:** The model architecture is based on VGG16, a well-known convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture.

- **Training:** The model was trained for a limited number of epochs on a local CPU due to resource constraints.

## Project Structure:

- **.dvc:** Data Version Control configuration for managing and versioning datasets.
  
- **.github/workflows:** GitHub Actions workflows for automating CI/CD processes.

- **config:** Configuration files for model parameters and settings.

- **model:** Directory containing the trained deep learning model.

- **research:** Notes, papers, or documentation related to the research phase of the project.

- **src/AgeDetection:** Source code for the age detection module.

- **templates:** HTML templates for the web application.

- **.dvcignore:** Files and directories to be ignored by DVC.

- **.gitignore:** Files and directories to be ignored by Git.

- **Dockerfile:** Configuration file for Docker, facilitating containerization.

- **LICENSE:** Project license details.

- **README.md:** You are here! The project's main documentation.

- **app.py:** Python script for running the web application.

- **dvc.lock:** Lock file generated by DVC, ensuring reproducibility.

- **dvc.yaml:** YAML file containing DVC pipeline information.

- **main.py:** Main script for executing the age detection.

- **params.yaml:** YAML file specifying model parameters.

- **requirements.txt:** Python package dependencies.

- **scores.json:** JSON file storing evaluation scores of the model.

- **setup.py:** Script for installing the project as a Python package.

- **template.py:** Template script for future model development.

## Usage:



1. **Clone the Repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/Age-Detection.git
   cd Age-Detection
   ```
Create an environment for further use using conda,pipenv or whatever you like.

2. **Setup Environment:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
Update the params.yaml file to use the project as you like.

3. **Train the Application:**
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

4. **Run the Application:**
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

5. **Explore Model:**
   - The trained model is located in the 'model' directory. Use it for inference or further development.

## Deployment:

The application was successfully deployed to Heroku, offering a live and accessible platform for users to experience the age detection model in action which was shut down after testing.


## License:

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
